# Tutorial

## Game Play

### Objective

The goal of this game is essentially moving from level to level by passing a red gate/passage.
The tricky part is that you have to do several tasks before you can actually pass the gate and proceed to the next level.

When the game starts your character is randomly placed on the map and since you shouldn't go unprepared on such an adventure, you need to [modify](#player-modification) your characters proportions and appearance to match the characteristics of the gate of this level
as well as eating all available snacks along the way to be energized for future tasks to come.

If you do not fulfil these tasks when passing through the gate, you'll lose `health` and the level is [restarted](level-restart)
Relocating yourself, the gate and the snacks.



### Making progress

As you proceed in levels the game doesn't necessarily get harder, rather you get even hungrier and more snacks spawn for you to consume.

Since the passage is generated by the distance that you have traveled and the place on the map were the current level takes place.
The puzzle will get trickier form level to level.

Finally because passing through a gate is exhausitng and can deeply impact your personality,
a new level will leave you with new character proportions and challenges at each step.



### Game Over
It might not come to you as a surprise but if you are out of `health`, because you either forgot to eat before passing through the gate to continue your journey, 
when you did not sufficiently prepare yourself for the adventures to come or if you were simply curious what would happen. 
 
Either way: **YOU LOST...** 

But since we appreciate you and your efforts in trying to play this game, it will automatically restart, giving you another chance to reach higher and higher levels. 


### Visuals
Except for the highly sophisticated player, snack and gate tiles, all other images originated out of the sample download from the GameENgine: `qisge` 

## Controls

Since the goal of this game/project is focusing on developing game mechanics using quantum parts 
rather than providing a highly involving game, the controls are quite simple.
 
### Player Movement
The player (link to image) can move using the `arrow keys` or `W`, `A`, `S` & `D`

### Player Modifciation

* **X** - Slowly adjusts your WIDTH 
* **Z** - Slowly adjusts the HEIGHT parameter which essentially impacts your size 
* **Y** - Slowly adjusts the ROTATION
* **H** - Switches states of HEIGHT and WIDTH  

* *(optional) SPACE* -  Toggles a debug console which should help you numerically aiming to allign yourself with the passage.
* *(optional) RETURN* - If you are stuck or the wondeful level generation, wasn't so wonderful after all and blocked the player from entering the passage
You can simply restars the game and sacrifce a little bit of your `health`

***NOTE** Take care when using  X,Z,Y and H they will affect all other proportions of the player, giving arelation  If you want to know why take at the look at the [Vision-Report]()*


## Game Elements

### Gate/Passage
The gate is the core of the game and essentially defines the propotions and characteristics a player has to fulfil in order to successully proceed to the next level. 

### Level restart
The Level restart can either be a punishment because you did not sufficiently prepared or becuase you got stuck and manually restarted the level.
Either way the Level restart option will consume `health` and will inevitably lead to [Game Over](game-over) 

### Player Proportions

The player proportions are needed in order to match the provided conditions of each levels gate.
The proportions available are:

* **HEIGHT** -
* **WIDTH** -
* **ROTATION** - 

Although three are aailable only HEIGHT and ROTATION are actually currently considered to compare your state with the levels gate.
You can adjust these by applying several [modifications](player-modifications)

### Snacks
Snacks are Smiley-shaped edibles the player has to consume before approaching a gate.

So even if you managed to align yourself with the proportions of the gate but left some edibles behind 
the game will still cause the level to be [restarted](level-restart), because not all conditions werefulfilled.

### Obstacles 
Although being a mighty `black arrow head`, you unfortunately can't pass through trees and the brick walls at the border of the screen.


